DOCS-12675-http-request-kt (#1707)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: http/1.6/modules/ROOT/pages/http-request-ref.adoc

= Configure HTTP Request Operation
:page-aliases: connectors::http/http-request-ref.adoc

> Anypoint Connector for HTTP (HTTP Connector) *Request* operation enables you to consume an external HTTP service using the default `GET` method. You can choose what methods the operation accepts:

Reviewer: "The...operation":
```suggestion
The Anypoint Connector for HTTP (HTTP Connector) *Request* operation enables you to consume an external HTTP service using the default `GET` method. You can choose what methods the operation accepts:
```
So although `GET` is the default, you can specify otherwise? Should we clarify?

> * The `GET` and `OPTIONS` methods do not send the payload in the request, the body of the HTTP request is empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `GET` and `OPTIONS` methods do not send the payload in the request (the body of the HTTP request is empty).
```
The second clause restates the first, correct? In that case, a comma is not sufficient.

* The `CONNECT`, `DELETE`, `PATCH`, `POST`, and `PUT` methods send the message payload as the body of the HTTP request.

> 

Reviewer: Anything to add about WHY the audience might choose one over the other...or is that obvious?

> After the HTTP *Request* operation sends an HTTP request, the connector receives an HTTP response and passes it to the next element in the Mule app's flow. The HTTP response can be successful or not and return different status codes. You can also customize how the operation generates HTTP responses in the connector operation global configuration.

Reviewer: Where does "an HTTP response" come from? This sentence says that the operation sends a request and that the connector receives a response (to the request? from where?).

Reviewer: The response itself is not "successful" but rather indicates success or failure, using a variety of status codes, correct? Clarify.

Reviewer: ...and you can customize these response indications by how you configure the operation? Clarify.

> By default, the operation sends the Mule message payload as the HTTP request body but you can customize it using a DataWeave script or expression. In addition to the body of the request, you can configure:

Reviewer: This sounds like the opposite of what we said above, about `GET` being the default, which does _not_ send the payload as the body of the request. Doublecheck.

Reviewer: Oh, do we mean that _when_ the op sends the body, by default it sends the _Mule message_ payload?

Reviewer: Clarify: does the user configure "the body of the request" or ...:

- Whether the body is included or not included?
- What is in the body?

* Request and response size limits
* Headers
* Query parameters
* URI parameters
* A map of multiple headers or parameters

> 

Reviewer: Just a copyedit/proof from here on; let me know if you want me to continue asking questions/content edit in a separate review later.

== Configure HTTP Request Connection

> To use an HTTP *Request* operation, the required minimum setting for the operation is a host URI, which can include a path. You can configure a connection with these settings:

Reviewer: "the required minimum setting" is not the object of "To use...": "you" is:
```suggestion
To use an HTTP *Request* operation, you must set, at a minimum, a host URI, which can include a path. You can additionally configure a receiving port and a communication protocol.
```

* *Host* +
Indicates where the requests are sent.
* *Port* +
Indicates where the requests are received.
* *Protocol* +

> Indicates the protocol for communication, either HTTP for plain connections or HTTPS for TLS secure connections.

Reviewer: "plain" = "standard"?

Reviewer: Also, I don't see *Protocol* in the example?

To enable secure connections through HTTPS, you must define a TLS configuration context in the connection and provide:

* A keystore for the server
* A truststore if you need two-way authentication

To learn about TLS configuration, refer to the xref:mule-runtime::tls-configuration.adoc[Configure TLS with Keystores and Truststores] documentation.

Additionally, you can configure the *Authentication* field with the following types:

* *Basic authentication*
* *Digest authentication*
* *Ntlm authentication* (NT LAN Manager)

To learn about authentication types and examples, refer to the xref:http-authentication.adoc[Configure Authentication for HTTP Requests] documentation.

> 

Reviewer: Are Lines 30-43 all information subordinate to the initial bullet-list item *Protocol*? If so, you might need to use subbullets to indicate the information hierarchy.

> The following example shows how to configure the HTTP *Request* connection in Studio:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to configure the HTTP *Request* connection in Anypoint Studio:
```

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Request*.
. Drag *Request* to the Studio canvas.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of HTTP *Request* in the app.

> . Set *Host* to `localhost` and *Port* to `8081`.

Reviewer: If the following image illustrates Line 50, then end Line 50 with a colon.

image::http-request-1.png[HTTP Request global configuration window with Host field set to localhost and Port field to 8081]

> [start=5]

Reviewer: We've set *Host* and *Port*...where is *Protocol*?

. Set *TLS configuration* to *Edit inline*.

> . In the *Trust Store Configuration* section, set *Path* to `keystore.jks` and *Password* to `Mypassword`.

Reviewer: Same comment as for Line 50.
GLOBAL

image::http-request-2.png[Trust Store Configuration window with Path field set to keystore.jks and Password field to Mypassword]

[start=7]
. Set *Authentication* to *Basic authentication*.
. Set *Username* to `testuser` and *Password* to `Mypassword`.
. Click *OK*.

> . In the HTTP *Request* configuration screen, set *Path* to `/testpath`.

Reviewer: ditto re. colon, GLOBAL.
I will stop asking. Please search for images and evaluate throughout.

image::http-request-3.png[Authentication field set to Basic authentication and User field set to testuser and Password field to Mypasswordd]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `host`, `port`, `path`, `trust-store`, and `authentication` configurations look like these:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request-config name="HTTP_Request_configuration">
		<http:request-connection host="localhost" port="8081">
			<tls:context >
				<tls:trust-store path="keystore.jks" password="Mypassword" />
			</tls:context>
			<http:authentication >
				<http:basic-authentication username="testuser" password="Mypassword" />
			</http:authentication>
		</http:request-connection>
	</http:request-config>
  <flow name="httplistenerresponseFlow1" >
  <http:request method="GET" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration" path="/testpath"/>
</flow>
----

== Configure HTTP Request and Response Size Limits

> By default, Mule defines different limits for the HTTP request size, response size, and request/response header size. However, you can change these max values by modifying the following properties in the `wrapper.conf` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Mule defines maximum values for the HTTP request size, response size, and request/response header size. However, you can change these values by modifying the following properties in the `wrapper.conf` file:
```

| Response Size | `org.glassfish.grizzly.nio.transport.TCPNIOTransport.max-send-buffer-size` | `1048576` (1MB)
|===

> To learn how to set system properties in the `wrapper.conf` file, refer to the xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-system.adoc#set-properties[Set System Properties in the wrapper.conf File] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about how to set system properties in the `wrapper.conf` file, refer to the xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-system.adoc#set-properties[Set System Properties in the wrapper.conf File] documentation.
```

== Configure Headers

> To add headers to an HTTP request, you can configure two options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You add headers to an HTTP request at one of two levels:
```

* *Headers* +
At the HTTP *Request* operation level
* *Default headers* +
At the HTTP *Request* global configuration level

> You configure default headers at the HTTP global configuration level so that you don't have to specify every header on every single request. With this configuration, those headers are added to every outbound request, alongside any headers you configure at the HTTP *Request* operation level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure default headers at the HTTP global configuration level to avoid specifying every header on every single request. With this configuration, those headers are added to every outbound request, alongside any headers you configure at the HTTP *Request* operation level.
```

Additionally, the default headers also accept expressions, allowing you to use dynamic values.

The following example shows how to configure the *Headers* field at the HTTP *Request* operation level in Studio:

. Select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow.
. In *General*, select the *Headers* tab.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a new header.
. In the *Name* column, change *"Key"* to `"HeaderName1"`.
. In the *Value* column, change *"Value"* to `"HeaderValue1"`.

image::http-request-4.png[Headers configuration at HTTP Request operation level]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `headers` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request method="GET" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration" path="/testpath">
			<http:headers ><![CDATA[#[output application/java
---
{
	"HeaderName1" : "HeaderValue1"
}]]]></http:headers>
		</http:request>
----

> You can use DataWeave expressions to add headers as well, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use DataWeave expressions to add headers as well:
```

. In the HTTP *Request* operation configuration window, select the *Headers* tab.

> . Select the *fx* button to switch to literal mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *fx* to switch to literal mode.
```

			<http:headers ><![CDATA[#[[{'HeaderName1' : 'HeaderValue1'}]]]]></http:headers>
		</http:request>
----

The following example shows how to configure the *Default headers* field at the HTTP *Request* global configuration level in Studio:

. Select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow.
. In *General*, select the *Headers* tab.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of HTTP *Request* in the app.
. Click *Settings*.
. Set *Default headers* to *Edit inline*.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a new header.
. Set *Key* to `x-csrf-token`.
. Set *Value* to `Fetch`.
. Click *Finish*.

image::http-request-6.png[Default headers configuration at HTTP Request global connection]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `default-headers` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:default-headers >
    <http:default-header key="x-csrf-token" value="Fetch" />
</http:default-headers>
----

The following example shows how to configure default headers with DataWeave expressions, allowing you to use dynamic values:

> . In the *Default headers* configuration window.

Reviewer: fragment; add the user step.

> . For *Value*, select the *fx* button to switch to literal mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. For *Value*, click *fx* to switch to literal mode.
```

. Set *Value* to `#[vars.role]`.

image::http-request-7.png[Default headers configuration at HTTP Request global connection]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `default-headers` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request-config name="requestConfig">
    <http:default-headers >
        <http:default-header key="custom-role" value="#[vars.role]" />
    </http:default-headers>
</http:request-config>
----

> Using DataWeave expressions in a configuration element constitutes a dynamic configuration. Each time a Mule app uses an HTTP *Request* operation, all expressions in the configuration are evaluated and for each set of distinct values, a new configuration instance is created and initialized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using DataWeave expressions in a configuration element constitutes a dynamic configuration. Each time a Mule app uses an HTTP *Request* operation, all expressions in the configuration are evaluated and, for each set of distinct values, a new configuration instance is created and initialized.
```

> For HTTP Connector, use default headers with small value expressions. Otherwise, every single evaluation returns a different value and creates several instances of the HTTP client. This behavior affects performance because of the extra work that takes to initialize a client and can be resource-consuming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For HTTP Connector, use default headers with small value expressions. Otherwise, every single evaluation returns a different value and creates several instances of the HTTP client, consuming valuable resources and negatively affecting performance.
```

> In such cases, configure headers with expressions at the HTTP *Request* operation level, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In such cases, configure headers with expressions at the HTTP *Request* operation level:
```
OR
```suggestion
In such cases, configure headers with expressions at the HTTP *Request* operation level, as shown here:
```
Avoid ", for example:" if possible.

</http:request>
----

> 

Reviewer: break to commit

== Configure Query Parameters

> To configure query parameters for the HTTP request, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure query parameters for an HTTP request, follow these steps:
```

. In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow.
. In *General*, select the *Query Parameters* tab.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a parameter to the request.
. In the *Name* column, change *"Key"* to `"Keyquery"`.
. In the *Value* column, change *"Value"* to `"Valuequery"`.

image::http-request-8.png[Query parameters configuration with Key field set to Keyqueryand Value field set to Valuequery]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `query-params` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request method="GET" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration" path="/testpath">
			<http:query-params ><![CDATA[#[output application/java
---
{
	"keyquery" : "Valuequery"
}]]]></http:query-params>
		</http:request>
----

> You can use DataWeave expressions to add query parameters as well, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use DataWeave expressions to add query parameters as well:

```

. In the HTTP *Request* operation configuration window, select the *Query Parameters* tab.

> . Select the *fx* button to switch to literal mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *fx* to switch to literal mode.
```

> . In the box, add the DataWeave expression `[{'Keyquery' : 'Valuequery'}]`.

Reviewer: Does "the box" have a title, name, or location we can specify to identify it?

image::http-request-9.png[Query parameters configuration with DataWeave expression]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `query-params` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request method="GET" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration" path="/testpath">
			<http:query-params ><![CDATA[#[[{'Keyquery' : 'Valuequery'}]]]]></http:query-params>
		</http:request>
----

== Configure URI Parameters

> You configure URI parameters when you want to use a placeholder, such as `/customer/{customerId}`, in the path of your request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure URI parameters when you want to use a placeholder, such as `/customer/{customerId}`, in the path of your request.
```

The following example shows how to configure the *URI Parameters* field in Studio:

. Select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow.
. In *General*, set *Path* to `/customer/{customerId}`.
. Select the *URI  Parameters* tab.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a new URI parameter.
. In the *Name* column, change *"Key"* to `"customerID"`.
. In the *Value* column, change *"Value"* to `"20"`.

image::http-request-10.png[URI Query parameters configuration with Key field set to customerID and Value field set to 20]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `uri-params` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request method="GET" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration" path="/customer/{customerId}">
			<http:uri-params ><![CDATA[#[output application/java
---
{
	"customerID" : "20"
}]]]></http:uri-params>
		</http:request>
----

> You can use DataWeave expressions to add URI parameters as well, for example:

Reviewer: GLOBALLY change per suggestions at Line 198.
Please search for; I will stop marking.

. In the HTTP *Request* operation configuration window, select the *URI Parameters* tab.

> . Select the *fx* button to switch to literal mode.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY change from "Select the *fx* button to..." to "Click *fx* to...".
I will stop marking.

. In the box, add the DataWeave expression `[{'customerID' : '20'}]`.

image::http-request-11.png[URI Query parameters configuration with DataWeave expression]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `uri-params` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request method="GET" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration" path="/customer/{customerId}">
			<http:uri-params ><![CDATA[#[[{'customerID' : '20'}]]]]></http:uri-params>
		</http:request>
----

> When the Mule app runs, it performs a `GET` request to: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Mule app runs, it performs a `GET` request to `+http://www.example.com/customer/20+`.
```

> `+http://www.example.com/customer/20+`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

== Configure Dynamic Parameters and Headers

> If during design time, you don't know how many parameters or headers a request might need, use DataWeave expressions and a variable map to dynamically assign parameters or headers to the HTTP request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When designing your application, if you don't know how many parameters or headers a request might need, use DataWeave expressions and a variable map to dynamically assign parameters or headers to the HTTP request.
```

Reviewer: OR
```suggestion
If you don't know how many parameters or headers an HTTP request might need, use DataWeave expressions and a variable map to dynamically assign these values to the request later. For example, if you create a variable map named `customMap`, you can set up placeholder headers for the request, such as `#[vars.customMap ++ {'HeaderName1' : 'HeaderValue1'}]`.
```

> To set headers dynamically, create a variable map and assign the variable values using DataWeave. Then, use that variable to set up the headers of your request. For example, with a variable map named `customMap`, you set up the following headers for the request: `#[vars.customMap ++ {'HeaderName1' : 'HeaderValue1'}]`

Reviewer: See Line 300 suggestion above.

> To set URI parameters dynamically, use a DataWeave expression that returns a map of the parameters. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set URI parameters dynamically, use a DataWeave expression that returns a map of the parameters, as shown in the following example:
```

> //Need to clarify this section with developers, as it is not a full DW expression

Reviewer: Don't forget this! :-)

* Set Path to: `/test/{p1}/{p2}`
* URI Parameter names: p1 and p2
* URI Parameter value: `#[vars.customMap]`

> Before the request, assuming p1 already set: `#[vars.customMap ++ {'p2': 'customer'}]`

Reviewer: fragment; please clarify.

> HTTP Connector resolves parameters for each request, and evaluates DataWeave expressions in the context of the current message, in the order specified in the request. If the same parameter is defined more than once, the latest value is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP Connector resolves parameters for each request and evaluates DataWeave expressions in the context of the current message, in the order specified in the request. If a single parameter is defined more than once, the latest value is used.
```

== Send Form Parameters

To send form parameters in a POST request, follow these steps:

. In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow.
. In *General*, set *Method* to *POST*.
. In *Body*, construct the payload of the Mule message as `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` with the names and the values of the parameters to send, for example:

> 

Reviewer: In this topic set I have seen `POST`, POST, and *POST*. Please ensure that these representations are appropriate to their contexts: syntax, name, and UI label, respectively.

`[output application/x-www-form-urlencoded --- {'key1':'value1', 'key2':'value2'}`

image::http-request-12.png[Body configuration with DataWeave expression]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `body` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="httprequestFlow" >
		<http:request method="POST" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration" path="testpath">
			<http:body ><![CDATA[#[output application/x-www-form-urlencoded --- {'key1':'value1', 'key2':'value2'}]]]></http:body>
		</http:request>
	</flow>
----

The HTTP *Request* operation sends a POST request to the host location. The HTTP request contains `Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded` and the body is `key1=value1&key2=value2`.

== Configure Round-Robin Requests

> The HTTP *Request* operation connects to configured hosts using round robin DNS. Mule resolves all IP addresses associated to the specified host and performs load balancing by distributing the requests across all returned IPs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HTTP *Request* operation connects to configured hosts using round-robin DNS. Mule resolves all IP addresses associated with the specified host and performs load balancing by distributing the requests across all returned IPs.
```

> When the operation connects to resources that require authentication, the external service needs to replicate session information between IP addresses under the host of your service. Otherwise, the HTTP requests might get rejected for being unauthorized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the operation connects to resources that require authentication, the external service must replicate session information between IP addresses within the host of your service to avoid request rejection. 
```

> If the external resource does not manage sticky sessions, add the service host name to the `mule.http.disableRoundRobin` system property. The HTTP request won't use round robin DNS to connect to the configured host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the external resource does not manage sticky sessions, add the service host name to the `mule.http.disableRoundRobin` system property. The HTTP request won't use round-robin DNS to connect to the configured host.
```

> To configure this system property, set it when starting Mule by adding: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure this system when starting Mule by adding `./mule -M-Dmule.http.disableRoundRobin=serverhostname.com`.
```

> `./mule -M-Dmule.http.disableRoundRobin=serverhostname.com`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Per above.

== Configure Response Validator

> When the HTTP *Request* operation receives an HTTP response, the operation validates the response through its status code. By default, HTTP Connector throws an HTTP error response when the status code is higher than or equal to 400. Consequently, if the server returns a 404 (Resource Not Found) or a 500 (Internal Server Error) a failure occurs and the connector triggers the error handling.

Reviewer: Clarify to what "its" refers in "...through its status code": operation or response?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the HTTP *Request* operation receives an HTTP response, the operation validates the response through the response status code. By default, HTTP Connector throws an HTTP error when the status code is 400 or above. Consequently, if the server returns 404 (Resource Not Found) or 500 (Internal Server Error), validation fails and the connector triggers error handling.
```

> Two ASCII `..` full stop characters define the range of failure status codes. Any value between 500 and 599 is considered a failure and raises an error. If the HTTP response has any other status code value, it's considered a success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two ASCII full-stop characters (`..`) define the range of failure status codes. Any value between 500 and 599 is considered a failure and raises an error. If the HTTP response has any other status code value, validation is considered a success.
```
"between" = from 500 through 599? clarify what is included.
raise an error vs. throw an error?

Reviewer: Is it confusing that the previous text included values 400 and above and this text 500 through 599?

The HTTP *Request* operation adds the following attributes to the Mule message when receiving an HTTP response:

* `attributes.statusCode` +

> Status code of the HTTP response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code representing the status of the HTTP response
```

* `attributes.reasonPhrase` +

> Reason phrase of the HTTP response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A phrase describing the reasoning behind the HTTP response
```

> To get a detailed overview of an HTTP response body during an HTTP request call, refer to the  xref:mule-runtime::mule-error-concept.adoc#http-request-error[HTTP Error Response example] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a more detailed example of an HTTP response body during an HTTP request call, see the xref:mule-runtime::mule-error-concept.adoc#http-request-error[HTTP Error Response example] documentation.
```

Reviewer: second commit

In the HTTP *Request* operation configuration, you can customize HTTP responses by configuring the *Response validator* field to any of these options:

* *None* +
Uses the default validator, which throws an error when the status code is greater than or equal to 400.
* *Expression or Bean reference* +
Uses a DataWeave expression or bean reference to define the status code.
* *Failure status coded validator* +
Defines failure status codes that throw errors.
* *Success status code validator* +

> Defines successful status codes.

Reviewer: The status codes are not successful; they indicate success.

The following example shows how to configure the *Response validator* field in Studio:

. Select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow.

> . In *General*, click the *Response* tab.

Reviewer: Note that earlier we have used "select" for tab. Standardize.

. Set *Response validator* to *Success status code validator*.

> . In *Values*, add the list of acceptable status codes, separated by commas, for example `200,201`. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Values*, add the list of acceptable status codes, separated by commas, such as `200,201`. +
```

>  If the HTTP response returned has any other status value, it fails and raises an error.

Reviewer: Clarify to what "it" refers.

image::http-request-13.png[Response validator field set to Success status code validator ]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `response-validator` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request method="POST" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration" path="testpath">
    <http:response-validator >
      <http:success-status-code-validator values="200,201" />
    </http:response-validator>
  </http:request>
----

== Configure a Target Variable

> By default, the body of an HTTP request is taken from the `#[payload]` of the incoming Mule message and the HTTP response is sent as the `#[payload]` of the output Mule message.

Reviewer: I kind of feel as if I wish I had seen this explanatory sentence earlier, in other discussions of "payload." Take a look and evaluate?

> You can change this behavior for the HTTP *Request* operation, either in the *Body* field section or updating the *Target Variable* field attribute. This attribute specifies a location other than payload for the output data, such as a variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change this behavior for the HTTP *Request* operation, either in the *Body* field section or by updating the value of the *Target Variable* field. This value specifies a location other than payload for the output data, such as a variable.
```
"field attribute" feels wordy, but your discretion. It's not used in the following sentence, Line 405.

The following example shows how to configure the *Target Variable* field in Studio:

. Select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow.

> . In *General*, click the *Advanced* tab.

Reviewer: ditto re. "click" vs. "select" a tab. Arguably, either is OK, but it is best to standardize per doc.

. Set *Target Variable* to `testvariable`.
. Set *Target Value* to `testvalue`.

image::http-request-14.png[Target variable and Target value configuration]

> In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `target` and `targetValue` configurations look like these:

Reviewer: I know I've mentioned this before, but I always have to stop and think when I see "looks like these," because I consider what follows to be one example:

```suggestion
In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `target` and `targetValue` configurations look like this example:"
```
```suggestion
In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `target` and `targetValue` configurations look like these examples:
```
If you mean "these examples," then it is OK to use "these." But if you mean "this example" or "the following syntax" or similar, all introductory text like this should use "...look like/looks like this:".

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request method="POST" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration" path="testpath" target="testvariable" targetValue="testvalue">
		</http:request>
----

== Configure Request Streaming Mode

When HTTP Connector manages request bodies, the connector considers the type of data to send. You can configure the HTTP *Request* operation to send HTTP requests in chunks. By default, if the payload type is stream, the operation uses the streaming mechanism to send HTTP requests. +

> To control this behavior, configure the *Request streaming mode* field to any of these options:

Reviewer: The original sentence is OK too.

When streaming, the HTTP request does not contain the `Content-Length` header. The request contains the `Transfer-Encoding` header and sends the body in chunks until the stream is fully consumed.

> The following example shows how to configure the *Request streaming mode* field in Studio:

Reviewer: Note that it is not "field attribute," per comment at Line 403.

=== Configure the Request Streaming System Property

> Setting *Request streaming mode*  to `ALWAYS` causes the Mule app to send HTTP requests in chunks, but the configuration doesn't imply that the Mule app streams the payload internally. The HTTP *Request* operation needs all the data in memory before sending HTTP requests. Therefore, if the Mule app needs to send a very large request body, the Mule app can generate a high memory consumption, and eventually cause an out-of-memory error. To prevent this issue, Mule provides the `mule.http.requestStreaming.enable` system property to enable internal request streaming.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY see if you can replace "needs" and "needs to." Because "need" has more than one meaning, it might cause reading translation issues. "Requires" is a good alternative.

Reviewer: I also wish that I had seen this explanation earlier, in the modes text: Setting *Request streaming mode*  to `ALWAYS` causes the Mule app to send HTTP requests in chunks...The HTTP *Request* operation needs all the data in memory before sending HTTP requests."
Just to clarify that whether the requests are streamed in a stream or streamed in chunks, it is still streaming.

Reviewer: (This is why it is good to tell me in what order to edit .adocs, so that I have the proper context when I get to "later" information.)

If you configure this system property, the HTTP *Request* operation starts sending the request body before all of the data is in memory. Therefore, the Mule app won't need as much memory as it would need if you don't configure this property.

To configure this system property, set it when starting Mule by adding: +
 `./mule -M-Dmule.http.requestStreaming.enable=true` +
 This property defaults to `false`.

You can also configure the internal buffer `mule.http.requestStreaming.bufferSize` system property for the streaming mechanism. +

To configure this property, set it when starting Mule by adding: +
 `./mule -M-Dmule.http.requestStreaming.bufferSize=value` +

To learn how to set system properties in Anypoint Studio or for on-premises deployments, refer to the xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-system.adoc[system properties] documentation.

== Configure Response Streaming

> When requesting a large payload, you can choose to stream the response by selecting the *Stream response* field in the HTTP *Request* global configuration.

Reviewer: Consider providing context right from the beginning: although the default is to not stream, you can change that so as to avoid <this problem>.

> By default, the *Stream response* field is deselected (`false`). When you select this field (`true`), you enable Mule to manage the HTTP response as a stream by saving chunks to an in-memory buffer. You can also configure the *Response buffer size* field attribute. Defaults to `1024`. To avoid issues, it's important to consume responses when streaming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the *Stream response* field is not selected (`false`). When you select this field (`true`), you enable Mule to manage the HTTP response as a stream by saving chunks to an in-memory buffer. You can also reconfigure the *Response buffer size* default of `1024` to a larger value; however, to avoid buffering issues, it's important to consume responses when streaming.
```
However, we don't typically refer to a field as "selected" or "unselected": "select" is for checkboxes, whereas fields have values that are typed in. Using "select" is further confusing when we provide the values `true` and `false`. Clarify?

The following example shows how to configure the *Request streaming mode* and *Response buffer size* fields in Studio:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Request*.
. Drag *Request* to the Studio canvas.
. Set *Path* to `/path`.

> . Click the plus sign (*+*) to open the HTTP Request global configuration.

Reviewer: Is Request init. capped because this is a label?
```suggestion
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to open the *HTTP Request* global configuration.
```

> . Select *Stream response*.

Reviewer: "select" (a choice from several options or a checkbox) or "click" (button, icon, and so on)?
See style ref and let me know if it is not clear enough?

. Set *Response buffer size* to `100`.

image::http-request-16.png[HTTP Request configuration window with Stream response field selected and Response buffer size field set to 100]

> In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `streamResponse` and `responseBufferSize` configurations look like these:

Reviewer: See earlier comment about the use of "look like"
GLOBAL

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request-config name="requestConfig">
    <http:request-connection host="localhost" port="8081" streamResponse="true" responseBufferSize="100"/>
</http:request-config>
----

== Configure Retry Mechanisms

> HTTP Connector uses a retry mechanism that enables you to configure how many times it tries consuming an external HTTP service. The connector uses this mechanism to reconnect an HTTP client with an HTTP service. HTTP Connector does not manage TCP connections, so this mechanism does not reconnect sockets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP Connector uses a retry mechanism that enables you to configure how many times it tries to consume an external HTTP service. The connector uses this mechanism to reconnect an HTTP client with an HTTP service. HTTP Connector does not manage TCP connections, so this mechanism does not reconnect sockets.
```
"reconnect"? Should we say "to reconnect an HTTP client with an HTTP service, should they become disconnected"?

Reviewer: Also..."tries" or "retries"? This becomes a little complicated later, so maybe "attempt" is better?

[WARNING]

> The HTTP *Request* operation does not use the reconnection strategy for retries. The reconnection strategy is a mechanism that Mule SDK uses to re-establish connections when a `ConnectionException` is caught. This mechanism does not affect connections to an HTTP service created by the HTTP *Request* operation.

Reviewer: I kind of feel like this clarification (reconnect vs. retries) should come first, as an introduction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HTTP *Request* operation does not use the reconnection strategy for retries. The reconnection strategy is a mechanism that Mule SDK uses to reestablish connections when a `ConnectionException` error occurs. This mechanism does not affect connections to an HTTP service created by the HTTP *Request* operation.
```

> To learn about connections, refer to the xref:mule-sdk::connections.adoc[Mule SDK Connections] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about connections, see the xref:mule-sdk::connections.adoc[Mule SDK Connections] documentation.
```

> To configure how many times the HTTP *Request* operation can try consuming an external HTTP service (_retries_), you can either use:

Reviewer: try vs. retry vs. attempt

Reviewer: "you can either use:" > "you can use either:" or "use either:"

* The *Until Successful* scope component
* The built-in retry mechanism in the HTTP *Request* operation

=== Configure Retry Mechanism with Until Successful Scope

> The *Until Successful* scope processes the components within the scope, in order, until they succeed or exhaust the maximum number of retries. Enclosing the HTTP *Request* operation in this scope, enables you to configure the *Max Retries* and *Milliseconds Between Retries* fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Until Successful* scope processes the components within the scope, in order, until they succeed or exhaust the maximum number of retries. Enclosing the HTTP *Request* operation in this scope enables you to configure the *Max Retries* and *Milliseconds Between Retries* fields.
```

> The following example shows how to configure the retry mechanism with *Until Successful* scope in Studio:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to configure the retry mechanism with the *Until Successful* scope in Studio:
```

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Core > Until Successful*.

> . Drag *Until Successful* scope component to the Studio canvas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag the *Until Successful* scope component to the Studio canvas.
```
OR
```suggestion
. Drag *Until Successful* to the Studio canvas.
```

</until-successful>
----

> To learn about the scope, refer to the xref:mule-runtime::until-successful-scope.adoc[Until Successful Scope] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about this scope, refer to the xref:mule-runtime::until-successful-scope.adoc[Until Successful Scope] documentation.
```

=== Configure Built-In Retry Mechanism

> When the HTTP *Request* operation receives an error of type `Remotely Closed`, the operation automatically retries the idempotent methods `PUT`, `DELETE`, `GET`, `HEAD`, `OPTIONS`, and `TRACE`, three times before the retry fails. Thereby, you can configure two system properties for this mechanism:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the HTTP *Request* operation receives an error of type `Remotely Closed`, the operation automatically retries the idempotent methods `PUT`, `DELETE`, `GET`, `HEAD`, `OPTIONS`, and `TRACE` three times before the retry fails. You can configure two system properties to customize this mechanism:
```

* `mule.http.client.maxRetries=5` +

> This system property enables you to configure the number of retries before the HTTP *Request* operation fails. Additionally, you can also set the system property value to zero to avoid using the built-in mechanism. +

Reviewer: You don't need both "additionally" and "also."

To configure this system property, set it when starting Mule by adding: +

>  `./mule -M-Dmule.http.client.maxRetries=5`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure this system property, set it when starting Mule by adding `./mule -M-Dmule.http.client.maxRetries=5`.
```

* `mule.http.client.retryOnAllMethods=true` +
This system property extends the built-in mechanism to all the methods, and not only the idempotent ones.

To configure this system property, set it when starting Mule by adding: +

>  `./mule -M-Dmule.http.client.retryOnAllMethods=true`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure this system property, set it when starting Mule by adding `./mule -M-Dmule.http.client.retryOnAllMethods=true`.
```

> To learn how to set system properties, refer to the xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-system.adoc[System Properties] documentation. To understand why nonidempotent methods, such as `POST`, aren't retried by default, refer to https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230#section-6.3.1[RFC 7230].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn how to set system properties, see the xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-system.adoc[System Properties] documentation. To understand why nonidempotent methods such as `POST` aren't retried by default, see https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230#section-6.3.1[RFC 7230].
```
